On Monday May 14th The Raspberry Pi Foundation hosted the first Picademy event. Over the course of two days 24 teachers from a range of disciplines attended this free professional development experience and got first hand experience with the Raspberry Pi and its potential as a great teaching tool. Following the event The MagPi talked with Carrie Anne Philbin, Education Pioneer at the Foundation about the event and the future of computing education in the UK.

TMP: How many applicants were there for the Picademy?
CA: Roughly just under 100 individuals applied for the first Picademy. 

TMP: How many teachers do you see graduating from Picademy a year? Do you foresee a mushroom / snowball effect of graduates training others?
CA: We are initially looking to run on average 6 Picademies per year with 20 to 24 attendees per event, and are currently planning the next two Picademies to take place before September. Raspberry Pi certified educators are expected to help lead training of other teachers in their area, be enthusiasts for Raspbeery Pi in their community, and to create teaching resources which will be made available via our website. Having only run one Picademy, we are still collecting data on how effective the mushroom effect is, but we hope to grow the education community across the country and then eventually the world.

TMP: How were the attendees of the Picademy selected?
CA: For the first Picademy 24 were selected from a mix of primary and secondary teachers, with an equal mix of male and female. Some had prior experience of Raspberry Pi and some were completely new to it. We had not only computing teachers but also an Art teacher, and a few Science teachers. We believe that computing is a cross curricular activity and that Raspberry Pi can help teachers develop that aspect in their teaching. 

TMP: Teachers are clearly going to be the driving force for improvements in computer science in schools. A common question from the Raspberry Pi community is “what can we do to help?”
CA: I believe in the collaboration between teachers, academics and industry experts in furthering the mission to improve how computer science is taught in schools. The Raspberry Pi community was a topic covered during Picademy by Matthew Manning from Raspberry Pi 4 Beginners, and Alex Eames from Raspi.Tv. Raspberry Jams were also high on the agenda with graduates being asked to form panel sessions at future Jams in their area. Code clubs are also a great way for the community to help teachers in schools. As both parties have an opportunity to learn from each other.

TMP: What support is there to Picademy graduates post-graduation?
CA: We have given all graduates from Picademy a ‘Raspberry Pi Certified Educator’ badge and tag to use on their blogs and other social media, as well as a special tag on our forum. We’ve added a Picademy sub forum so that graduates have a common place to discuss ideas and seek support from our community where it is needed. Although it is still early days, we are toying with the idea of creating more levels to keep our certified educators on their toes.

TMP: With the emphasis on coding coming from government over computer science is there a concern that broader scientific literacy, coupled with appropriate critical thinking skills may be put to one side in preference to learn by rote computer programming? How does Picademy specifically aim to address this?
CA: Picademy is not your regular run of the mill teacher training course. We do not stand at the front and speak at attendees for two whole days. The emphasis is on the attendees to take an active, hands on role in learning. Developing their ideas during the two days is actively encouraged. We also reflect on how the attendees approached different tasks over the two days, and suggest ways they can take these approaches back to their classrooms to avoid rote computing programming. Creativity, critical thinking, problem solving, and collaboration are actively encouraged during Picademy. 

TMP: Taking new skills into the classroom now is great, but how does this become a longterm (5, 10, 20 years) investment in teaching? What's to prevent a minimal standard from being attained and no more?
CA: The next 6 or so years are going to be interesting. The lessons secondary schools teachers are delivering will be redundant as a new cohort arrives in year 7 with major computational thinking skills. This transition is a long term process and continued development. Schools and teachers should see this period as an opportunity to change more than just their own skills, and also to consider the approaches they take to teaching and learning: to embrace technology and think cross curricular. Every adult is a lifelong learner, and teachers in particular consistently look to improve their practice. Research is required right now that will help inform the teaching practises of others over the next 10 years. 

TMP: How can Picademy support new and fairly new teachers who likely graduated from school and university without themselves having been taught computer science at school?
Any UK teacher can apply for Picademy, we support all teachers at all points in their careers, and from any subject area. We also plan to work directly with teacher training centres to help them add Raspberry Pi to their training programs in the future.

TMP: Reading reviews of Picademy from those that attended a mention of the use of GitHub caught our attention in relation to lesson plans. Do you see collaborative tool being one of several tools that teachers are encouraged to use to share their experiences?
CA: Yes, we are very excited about using Github not only to host our resources but also as a tool for teachers to be able to share code with their classes, track the changes that their students make, and be able to assess and collaborate on, especially with the introduction of Github in Education and the possibility to create free private repositories for students. 

TMP: There are many ways to engage with teachers. Why did you decide on the small group format for Picademy rather than focussing on producing online resources?

CA: We have lots of tutorials online to get started with Raspberry Pi. When I first started at the Foundation in January I went to BETT. While last year I found teachers were asking why bother with Raspberry Pi in the classroom, this year the questions were very different: how can we use Raspberry Pi in our classrooms? We talked about the resources we were creating, but then teachers would ask us when we would be providing training? When are you doing CPD (Continual Professional Development)? CPD is something that teachers are supposed to do each year. I fed this back to the Foundation and said: look there is this real need. Teachers are asking us specifically for CPD. Clive and I saw online that there are third party companies making quite a lot of money delivering CPD to teachers with Raspberry Pi but they are doing things like how to set up, how to plug it in, ie: really basic stuff. I'm self taught with Raspberry Pi, as are a lot of teachers I know. So I thought why should someone be selling our training when we could be providing it for free and do a much better job of it? In 2012 I became a Google certified teacher and I learnt how to think about teaching in a different way. I thought about that training I'd had and how I could apply it to Raspberry Pi. And that's when I came up with Raspberry Pi Certified Educators. People would apply, we'd have them here for two days. They'd then become certified and there are certain expectations involved in that certification in the hope that it would further the community.

The Foundation is a charity there are just not enough of us to attend all the events and workshops that schools email us every day about. To have our own group of trained teachers who we can call on around the country means we can point schools to those teachers and they can provide training or generally be a point of contact in the community.

----

There are many ways to engage with teachers. Why did you decide on the small group format for Picademy rather than focussing on producing online resources?
We have lots of tutorials online that you can self-teach to get started with Raspberry Pi or to learn a particular language. When I first started at the Foundation in January I went to BETT and last year I found teachers were asking why bother with Raspberry Pi in the classroom. However this year the questions were very different: how can we use Raspberry Pi in our classrooms? We talked about the resources we were creating, but then they'd say when are you going to be providing training? When are you doing CPD (Continual Professional Development)? CPD is something that teachers are supposed to do each year. I fed this back to the Foundation and said: look there is this real need. Teachers are asking us specifically; when are we actually going to run some kind of CPD. Clive and I saw online that there are third party companies making quite a lot of money delivering CPD to teachers with Raspberry Pi but they are doing things like how to set up, how to plug it in, ie: really basic stuff. I'm self taught with Raspberry Pi, as are a lot of teachers I know. So why should someone be selling our training when we could be providing it for free and also do a much better job of it. Because I'm a Google certified teacher, where in 2012 I learnt how to think about teaching in a different way, I thought about that training I'd had and how I could apply it to Raspberry Pi. And that's when I came up with the Raspberry Pi Certified Educators idea. People would apply, we'd have them here for two days. They'd then become certified and there are certain expectations involved in that certification in the hope that it would further the community really. The Foundation is a charity and we get a lot of emails every day asking us to come in and run workshops or attend events. There are just not enough of us, so to have our own group of teachers who we can call on, especially around the country as we are based in Cambridge, and I'm in London most of the time. So to get places like Cornwall, Cumbria and Liverpool is very difficult for us to get to those places. So to have teachers we've trained in those areas means we can point schools to those teachers and they can provide training or generally be a point of contact in the community.

09:15 The first event was really a pilot and the feedback will inform what we do for the next one.

Will the concept of Picademy continue to evolve and change over time as the needs of the students change?
It's interesting as the cohort we selected didn't just include really advanced teachers	or just people who did not know anything about Raspberry Pi. We had a real mix: four of the 24 we had pre-selected so that they could act as lead learners. They were teachers who are already using Raspberry Pi. It was really good to have them in the room. I think that mix was really important and quite integral to what we're trying to do with Picademy because its getting those individuals together that makes something exciting happen. It is really keen for us to explain that Picademy is not us standing at the front delivering training about Raspberry Pi, it's about asking what ideas the teachers have, writing them down, working through project ideas and thinking where we can get engineers in to help you develop that.

11:59 Something I wasn't expecting at all: one of our members had no computing experience whatsoever and said at the end of the two days that when the new Computing curriculum was announced and they saw what was on it that they were going to quit teaching, but having spent two days with us had completely changed their mind. That mix of people and the opportunity to network by trying different ideas and thinking about how they can apply it to their classroom is really important. The teachers who attended were not just Computing teachers. We had an Art teacher and Science teachers there. This has sparked ideas about how it can be cross-curricula as well. 

13:25 (TIM): The important point there seems to be the time to attend Picademy.

13:50 (CA): I agree. We put this event on in the school holidays. The next two we plan towards the end of term because after the exams in the Summer term teachers have more time to attend events. It is difficult to know when to put them on. We are considering creating a fund for some schools so if a teacher really wants to come but it involves taking two days out of school but their school won't let them then the school can apply for a fund so we can cover the costs of their supply cover. This is just an idea at the moment.

14:40 
MP: Going forwards are you hoping for more involvement from industry in Picademy to help teachers?
Carrie Anne: I'm a huge advocate for that as it was through going to Raspberry Jams and working with industry experts that I improved my knowledge and skills. I do envisage in the future that perhaps we can have some more industry experts come in and talk about what they do. We did give a presentation on the wider community including The MagPi, Raspberry Jams and the various YouTube channels for Raspberry Pi that people are creating. We also did a very big push on the forum. We've set up a sub-forum for Picademy teachers and given them their own tag as the idea we hope is that they will engage with our community who are very helpful, especially if the teachers have a specific problem. It is usual that someone will get back to them the same day on the forums. This is because teachers can be really scared of joining forums because I think maybe about five years ago there was a lot of backlash on forums if you asked a really NOOB question about something. Where-as now I think the Raspberry Pi community is such a fantastic one that it's changed my mind about that and we're trying to explain that to teachers. I think with the Picademy teachers we can get them to lead the way on the forum and create a much better way of industry people and teachers being able to collaborate together.

MP: Yes, we've noticed that the Raspberry Pi forums are very helpful.

Carrie Anne: Liz and Clive have been very helpful by policing the education section of the forum. Teachers are teaching different things are different key stages and not every teacher will have used Linux, for example. Teachers are professionals who have gone through a lot of training to become professionals, but may not have a solid computing background. However they are life long learners bred to ask questions, and when you ask something you are just looking for an answer. To have someone really take you down in a public way on a forum is just horrific whether you are a teacher, a student or whoever you are.

It's really about building the confidence of teachers to ask a question. The first thing we started with at Picademy was that there are no stupid questions: if you've a question, ask it. Someone in the room will find an answer for you, and if no-one there could we'd go and find an engineer and get them in to help. How can you learn if you can't feel confident to ask a question? I think this is really important.

MP: We've found a number of teachers coming to us at events unsure where to start or who to ask about Raspberry Pi. There's a definite need for core help, like that provided by Picademy.

Carrie Anne: Absolutely. I think teaching and learning in the profession is really beginning to change. I always try to explain to teachers that you don't have to be the expert in the classroom, especially with a subject like ours. It's ok to learn with your students. As long as you can point them in the direction of where there may be an answer then that's good. You can't be an expert in everything, certainly not in the field of computing. The new programme of study is not just coding but is a whole range of different aspects of the subject.


--HERE--

Carrie Anne: The biggest fear I have is that instead of death by Powerpoint it is going to be death by Scratch because all primary schools are going to be using Scratch and then the students could go up to secondary school and do it all over again. So the question about 5, 10 or 20 years from now is really important because it is an ongoing process: this change will continue for 5 or 6 years at least, because it will be interesting seeing the primary kids going up to secondary school and how that transition is dealt with. The kids get bored of Scratch quickly once they understand the computation behind it as they want to try something more advanced. It is important that the teacher doesn't limit that learning. We have a lot of primary school teachers here at Picademy. One teacher at Picademy was confident with Scratch but also open to the suggestion of using Python. Something I did with her was create a story generator and she realised how she could teach English, some literacy and the kids could write some Python. I'm talking about primary school kids writing Python and that's wonderful. Think of the secondary school teachers when they get those kids and all they're doing is Scratch. That's a worry that we're looking to address.

MP: It certainly looks like computing education is going to accelerate quickly, with the level each child is at at each stage.

Carrie Anne: I think it is going to be really difficult to assess that as well. While the schools will say they've delivered a really good computing curriculum, it may vary from borough to borough. I think in the first couple of years there's going to be a real difference in what each primary school is doing. This is really interesting for the secondary schools when they have those kids turn up in Year 7: all these kids from different primary schools with different computing backgrounds. For us at the Foundation it is really important we continue working with our Raspberry Pi Certified Teachers. The two days is not it. I see a long term supportive relationship over the next few years.

MP: How do you see teachers being able to get budgets for the hardware needed on top of the Raspberry Pi's themselves? This is a concern teachers have raised with us at the Digimakers event.

Carrie Anne: It does add up. Having the lead teachers in the room meant we could talk about how we managed to fund it through crowd funding and going on Twitter. I asked on Twitter if anyone had 10 monitors they were getting rid of and literally within an hour someone from a local office said they were getting rid of a load. We also got KVM switches to switch between the Raspberry Pi and the computers already in the room. We also covered the use of VNC at Picademy to connect to the Raspberry Pi's. I think teachers are open to looking for different solutions to this. Crowd funding is quite an interesting one. I think a lot of parents would happily put a fiver or tenner into a campaign to buy some kit.

Industry experts are asking all the time: "how can I help education?" There you go: donate a bit of money, kit or time.

MP: Is the Foundation going to start endorsing specific hardware kits for use in education?

Carrie Anne: At the moment we're relatively new to the education sector, having been sucked in because of the changes to the programme of study where people think Raspberry Pi should be in the classroom. There's nothing planned at this moment, but we have lots of ideas and we are engaging with our Picademy teachers to find out what solutions they think. We had a whole wall of post-it notes here which were kind of what do you think are boundaries for using Raspberry Pi in your classroom? How can the Foundation help? What could we develop? What third party companies could we work with? What kind of things are you after? We're definitely open to those discussions but there's nothing specifically planned right now, but I'm sure in a year's time that could be different. 

MP: To protect a Raspberry Pi in a school environment it seems sensible to have it in a case, exposing GPIO and other ports as needed. This means the schools start to lock the device down to some extent with various blanking plates which makes it more robust for the school environment. Is this something you would like to see more third parties coming forward with solutions for?

Carrie Anne: I think there is an issue with very young children in primary school as their motor skills mean that plugging things into the Raspberry Pi to set it up can be quite a leap. We like the ecosystem around the Raspberry Pi, the companies that are springing up and making a profit for themselves by designing solutions like the Fuze [Ed: http://www.fuze.co.uk] which is really good for young kids by making Raspberry Pi accessible to primary, but I think there's also a way to go there as well. We do hope that more companies spring up here.

45:53 For me I liked that the Raspberry Pi was not in a case. As soon as I put a Raspberry Pi on the desk all the students would ask me questions, whether they were at A-Level or Year 7: what is it? Why doesn't it have a case? How is it like a computer? Is it like that computer over there? That's really important because for a teacher that's the best moment. If a student asks you questions you know that they are engaged and interested in that learning. So for me it was really nice that it wasn't in a case. When things don't work first time it's a learning opportunity, you can address why it isn't working first time by considering what's the problem and what have we learnt from this.
 
MP: We've definitely noticed a barrier for people to fully use the Raspberry Pi if they have a case which doesn't have a way of accessing the GPIO pins for example. Were the teachers at Picademy nervous about having a computer that's not in a case because it could be poked with scissors and broken?

Carrie Anne: Not at all. They all got hands on straight away so I don't think this should be a big issue for schools. Computers in schools tend to be on complete lock-down. My experience was that kids couldn't execute code or move the machines. They were literally locked in place. Where-as Raspberry Pi makes it easy: it is tangible, in front of the students and makes them understand what computing is.

MP: The projects undertaken at Picademy really caught our attention, especially the bullet time Babbage bear. How did that come about? 

Carrie Anne: That was an idea that came up over dinner on the first night. An art teacher suggested Babbage could hold the chalk and a lit match during the sequence. It was really important to me that the teachers that we selected were not all the same teacher. You could run a Picademy that's all for primary, Key Stage 2 computing teachers, but that doesn't make any sense to me. It needs to be this mixed bag of people for interesting things to happen, and I'm hoping that the next Picademy will also get teachers from other subject applying.

MP: The mixture of computing, with science and art is going to make for very interesting lessons. Down the line when they enter industry this gives us people with great ideas about how to improve and change what we do for the better.

Carrie Anne: You highlighted being taught computing by rote. One of the things we had was people breaking out into self-selected groups, and at the end of the two days I stood up and said it was really interesting to see you they learned from each other and the way you went about your learning, because you can apply this to what you do in your classroom. Collaborating on projects seems to be something that works very well: they very quickly defaulted to that. There's a real moment when teachers can not only change their skills and what they understand but also the way they go about teaching, the pedagogy they use in their classroom. I think we're at a real turning point for a lot of people.

I took a lot of data at Picademy, both when they arrived and feedback straightaway afterwards to base case studies on. We're going to catch up with them in about three months to see where they are and how they apply computing in their classroom, what successes and what failures they had. We're in a really new era with an opportunity to do research. We're right at the cusp of change: it's very exciting for me and I hope all these teachers will see that there's a real opportunity.

MP: Do you hope that rather than a reboot of teaching computing in 1980s that this is a reboot and improve?

Carrie Anne: Exactly. It's an iterative process, and we're keen to explain this to teachers. What I did with Sonic Pi in the beginning was different to how Sonic Pi is now and where we're taking it in the future.