As soon as the Raspberry Pi was launched, I was keen to get started with this awesome innovation. The Raspberry Pi plays a key role in our school's Tech-Dojo events that have seen over 150 children, parents and teachers attend fun packed days on a Saturday.  These days have included learning about coding, electronics, Minecraft and App building.
As a result of the Tech-Dojo events, the school has won an award for digital projects that engage with the local community through the annual  North Wales 14-19 e-learning competition and I have recently been awarded a Silver Pearson Teaching award for Outstanding use of Technology in Education.

Digital Literacy is almost a given in today’s society, however computing is less so.  The aim of our sector-leading Tech-Dojo sessions is to introduce the latest technology to the local community.  This includes current students, primary children, home educated children, parents and even other teachers through continuing professional development (CPD).  Our sessions introduce them to the possibilities of computing through a range of fun activities. We use Raspberry Pi’s extensively, to introduce visual and text based coding.  We add electronics into the mix, such that participants can control lights and code working circuits.  These events are promoted through local primary schools, Twitter, and the Tech-Dojo App for smart phones. 

The Tech-Dojo sessions have seen a wide range of attendees, including children from schools across North Wales, as well as teachers looking for CPD.  Members of the local educational authority (LEA) have also attended, to experience the learning atmosphere for themselves.  These sessions are ultimately aimed at raising awareness of the possibilities of using the Raspberry Pi, Scratch, Minecraft, and App building tools, to help children to realise the possibilities of being skilled in these areas.  In doing so, we begin to raise the aspirations of the young people in our community.

We pride ourselves on having staff with the expertise, motivation, and enthusiasm in the field of computing, to be able to make a difference to the community through our inclusive attitude towards engaging with those around us.  This includes children moving from primary to secondary schools, as wel as secondary pupils.  For us, it is all about getting technology into children's hands and helping them to realise their potential. We also aim to facilitate sessions, to include home educated children in the community.

Using our innovative practice developed here at Ysgol Bryn Elian, we aim to deliver first class sessions that inform and educate.  Our goal is to reach as many people as possible, to raise aspirations across the region, in addition to preparing schools for changes in the educational landscape through sector-leading practice.

To date we have run two highly successful Tech Dojo's, with over 150 children from 20 schools across North Wales taking part. These fun-packed days have been supercharged with technology, to ensure all are engaged, having fun and most of all are learning!  Impact of these events is of paramount importance to us.  Therefore, we seek feedback on every session.  The positive comments have been staggering! 

We try to provide different content at each event.   For example, we already have six new activities planned for the next Tech-Dojo (September 2014), where we aim to create an intruder alarm, use motors to create optical illusions and create the classic wire-buzz game, all using a Raspberry Pi that the children will code themselves!

Computing plays an essential role in our daily lives.  In response, our school embedded computing within its KS3 curriculum even before it was on the Government's educational agenda. The school has delivered taster sessions to children from local primary school, using Pygame to make Carrie-Anne Philbin's Space Invaders graphics and produced Scratch code to re-create popular games such as Angry Birds and Flappy Bird.  These activities really get the children engaged in algorithm design and computational thinking.  We are now seeing the fruits of our labour.  The school is right at the front of this exciting and innovative area of the curriculum, offering CPD to local Primary Schools in their bid to improve skills prior to impending changes on the educational landscape.  The future looks bright for technological innovation across North Wales.

