We are currently planning our next Raspberry Pi event "Pi and More 5" in
Trier/Germany. The event will take place on June 28 at the University of
Trier / Campus 2. We will have talks, workshops, and projects using the
Raspberry Pi or other embedded systems. A detailed schedule for the
event will be announced in early June. All information can be found on
our website at http://www.piandmore.de

We are looking for persons or groups who are interested in presenting a
project or a topic at Pi and More 5. We welcome presentations of own or
other projects (e.g., hardware and software projects), or a presentation
of general topics, like first steps with the Raspberry Pi, programming,
system internals, hardware tutorials, etc. Contributions about the
Raspberry Pi are as welcome as contributions about other embedded
systems or microcontrollers. The event aims at beginners and experts
alike. Therefore, simple and small projects fit as well as workshops for
experts.

Please include "Pi and More 5" in the next edition of your "What's On
Guide".

Regards,

Guido Schmitz

--

Glasgow Science Festival: Raspberry Jam and Coderdojo Scotland
GLASGOW SCIENCE FESTIVAL
Saturday, 14 June 2014 from 10:00 to 16:00 (BST)
Glasgow, United Kingdom
http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/glasgow-science-festival-raspberry-jam-and-coderdojo-scotland-tickets-11220756585

University of Strathclyde
Livingstone Tower, 26 Richmond Street,
Glasgow
G1 1XH 
United Kingdom

Saturday, 14 June 2014 from 10:00 to 16:00 (BST)

Glasgow Science Festival: Raspberry Jam and Coderdojo Scotland
Raspberry Jam is a global network of user groups supporting anybody that wants to put their Raspberry Pi computer to good use.  In this workshop, learn how the Raspberry Pi can be used to create apps, games and websites, control robots, and much more. The only limit on what you can do is your imagination.  Some experience needed.
Age 7+

=====
Raspberry Pi for Beginners
http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/raspberry-pi-for-beginners-tickets-11615156245
The Raspberry Pi is a credit-card-sized single-board computer developed in the UK by the Raspberry Pi Foundation with the intention of promoting the teaching of basic computer science. 

Find out how to get started in this beginners workshop with Plymouth University's School of Computing.

Plymouth Central Library
Drake Circus
Plymouth
PL4 8AL 
United Kingdom

Saturday, 7 June 2014 at 10:00 (BST)
--

